I have very low vision in comparison to the average person.
It often is very painful to get through the day because of the extreme
light sensitivity and the deterioration of health of my eye.
Jehovah gives me the knowledge that I cannot expect this to go away.
But he never lets me forget that we're always in it together.
Jehovah does not see a disability in me, but he sees someone who is capable of bringing
place to him, someone who is also capable of helping others.
In the world in which we live, people that are disadvantaged feel like that they're not useful.
But here Jehovah has allowed someone who is unable to see, to be able to be equipped to help
other individuals using his word.
Like so many of us, Rachel, Wayne and Tabo appreciate the hard work of the faithful and
discrete slave to provide the spiritual food we all need.
Technologies used by those who are blind and visually impaired keep advancing.
Under the direction of the writing committee of the governing body,
our organization uses these advances to make life-saving spiritual food more available in formats
the blind can use. In this report, we will briefly look at the history of publications for the
blind as well as new tools that are very helpful for our blind brothers and sisters
and those they read in the field. But first, let us consider what the difference is between
being visually impaired and being blind. Those who are visually impaired can see to a limited
degree and may be able to function outside their home without the use of a cane or a guide.
Those who are visually impaired may be able to read by using a large sprint publication or
increasing the text size of an electronic device. However, those who are blind are not able to see
well enough to function outside their home without the use of a cane or a guide. They may be
totally blind or they may be able to detect only shadows or very bright light.
An estimated 43 million people worldwide are blind. That includes more than 13,000 of our dear
brothers and sisters. Many more of our brothers and sisters are among the hundreds of millions
who are considered to be visually impaired. What is our history of providing for their spiritual
needs? Printing was first done on a manually operated machine that embossed one sheet at a time.
Over time, the equipment improved. This made it easier to produce complete watchtowers,
books, booklets and tracks. In 1988, we produced the first edition of the New Rail translation of
the Holy Scriptures in English Braille. When I first started applying here,
there was no Braille Bible. To be honest with you, it was an unexpected gift to be able to
have it, to read it at my disposal whenever I want to, and also to be able to uplift and encourage
others. Today, our organisation prints Braille in 48 languages. In addition, we are also helping
those who are blind but who cannot read or write Braille. A few years ago, we published the
brochure Learn to Read Braille. It has already been produced in 10 languages and more languages
will be coming. In recent years, new tools have given blind and visually impaired readers more
options for reading and studying the Bible. Starting in 2009, the Watchtower was produced as an
electronic Braille file. Since 2014, we have been making these files available on our website.
These files can be downloaded on a Braille computer called a Notaker that shows the reader
the Braille dots per line. Well, let's say if we want to take Enjoy Life Forever, it's 12
volumes to be able to have the whole publication. Now, you have it on a little machine. It's very
nice because you can take your electronic device with you then wherever you need to go.
A screen reader is a digital program you can install on an electronic device or computer.
It can read aloud what is on the screen, helping the user understand and even navigate the page
of site. A feature that has received a lot of positive feedback is the use of alt text,
short for alternative text. These are more extensive descriptions of the pictures in our publications.
Page 16 Image. A sister and her young daughter washing clothes by hand. A brother and his wife
The first time I encountered picture descriptions, it was so nice. I felt really a part of the
congregation. I can confidently comment on the picture and the feedback that I've always
got from the brothers and sisters is that the descriptions bring out the points that they
didn't even realize with their eyes. And hearing such comments from them always gives me a joy
that I miss us of encouragement to them. Braille and screen readers have been a spiritual
lifeline for these brothers and sisters. But today, we receive so much spiritual food through
videos. So what's being done to make sure that the blind and visually impaired have access to
videos as well. In 2020, at the Regional Convention, we provided the first videos with audio
descriptions, which are spoken phrases added to a video to explain what's seen on the screen.
Let us just put ourselves in the shoes of a blind person to see the difference audio descriptions
can make. Night time in the King's bedroom, when blows the curtains, he stirs in his sleep,
flashes of himself crownless, an immense bright image, a fireball crushes the feet.
I felt like the faithful and the sweet slave was saying to me, we are going to give you one
less thing that you have to fight for to understand and figure out on your own.
I'm getting the teaching point now. Now the person sitting next to you doesn't have to
describe to you what's going on. You're independent again. I love audio descriptions.
Nowadays, it's a bit difficult for me to watch a video that does not have descriptions.
It also helps when it comes to sharing with the other person the lesson that I have learned
from that video. Jehovah loves me and he compensates my absence of sight with something that he knows
I can truly benefit from. Today, we are producing videos with audio descriptions in 92 languages.
These descriptions have proved very useful and they have had another unexpected benefit.
What is it? Although originally prepared for the blind, we discovered that brothers and sisters
who cannot afford to download the video format of the convention program are benefiting as well.
They listen to the audio descriptions and these descriptions give them a clear understanding
of the scenes in our videos. At Psalm 23, David wrote,
Jehovah is my shepherd. I will lack nothing. Like David, we all feel that Jehovah as a loving shepherd,
guides and protects us. We feel that especially when we can read the Bible and apply its lessons
using spiritual food in print, audio and video. Through his organization,
Jehovah ensures that all of us, including those who are blind and visually impaired, can
confidently say, I will lack nothing.